Welcome. This week I
will teach you about
the transformer model.
It's a purely attention based
model that I developed with
my friends at Google to remedy
some problems with RNNs.
First, let me tell you what
these problems are so you
understand why the
transformer model
is needed. Let's dive in.
First, I'll talk about
some problems related to
recurrent neural networks using
some familiar architectures.
After that, I'll show you why
pure attention models help
to solve those issues.
In neural machine translation,
you use a neural
network architecture
to translate from one
language to another.
In this example, we're going to
translate from English to German.
Using an RNN, you have to
take sequential steps
to encode your input,
and you start from the
beginning of your input making
computations at every step
until you reach the end.
At that point, you decode
the information following a
similar sequential procedure.
As you can see here,
you have to go through every word
in your inputs starting with
the first word followed by
the second word,
one after another.
In sequential matcher in order
to start the translation,
that is done in a
sequential way too.
For that reason, there is not
much room for parallel
computations here.
The more words you have
in the input sequence,
the more time it will take
to process that sentence.
Take a look at a more
general sequence
to sequence architecture.
In this case, to
propagate information
from your first word
to the last output,
you have to go through
T sequential steps.
Where T is an integer that
stands for the number of
time-steps that your
model will go through
to process the inputs of
one example sentence.
If let's say for instance,
you are inputting a sentence
that consist of five words,
then the model will take
five times steps to
encode the sentence,
and in this example,
T equals five.
As you may recall from earlier in
the specialization,
with large sequences,
the information tends to get
lost within the network,
and vanishing gradients problems
arise related to the length
of your input sequences.
LSTMs and GRUs help a
little with these problems.
But even those architectures
stop working well
when they try to process
very long sequences.
To recap, there is a
loss of information,
and then there's the
vanishing gradients problem.
Now transformers are
models specially
designed to tackle some
of the problems
that you just saw.
For instance, let's recall
the conventional
encoder-decoder architecture
which is based on RNNs and used
to compute T sequential steps.
In contrast, transformers
are based on
attention and don't require
any sequential
computation per layer,
only one single step is needed.
Additionally, the gradient steps
that need to be taken from
the last output to
the first input in a
transformer is just one.
For RNNs, the number of steps
is equal to T. Finally,
transformers don't
suffer from vanishing
gradients problems that are
related to the length
of the sequences.
Transformer differs from
sequence to sequence by
using multi-head attention layers
instead of recurrent layers.
To understand the intuition
of multi-head attention,
let's first recall
self-attention.
Self-attention uses
directly its query,
key, and value obtained from
every sequential inputs.
Finally, it's out puts
a same length sequential
output for each input.
Self-attention can
be understood as
an intention model
that incorporates
a dense layer for every input,
queries, keys, and values.
Now you can think
of adding a set of
parallel self-attention layers
which are called heads.
These heads are further
concatenated to produce
a single output.
This model is called
multi-head attention
which emulates the recurrence
sequence effect with attention.
Transformers also incorporates
a positional encoding
stage which encodes
each inputs position
in the sequence since
the words order and position is
very important for any language.
For instance, let's suppose
you want to translate
from German the phrase
ich bin glucklich,
and I apologize for
my pronunciation.
Now to capture the
sequential information,
the transformers use
a positional encoding
to retain the
positional information
of the input sequence.
The positional encoding out puts
values to be added
to the embeddings.
That's where every input word
that is given to the model
you have some of the information
about it's order
and the position.
In this case,
a positional coding vector
for each word I-C-H B-I-N,
and glucklich will have
some information
which will tell us
about their respective positions.
Unlike the recurrent layer,
the multi-head attention
layer computes
the outputs of each
inputs in the sequence
independently then it allows
us to parallelize
the computation.
But it fails to model
the sequential information
for a given sequence.
That is why you
need to incorporate
the positional encoding stage
into the transformer model.
In summary, RNNs have
some problems that's come
from their sequential structure.
With RNNs, it is hard to fully
exploit the advantages
of parallel computing.
For long sequences,
important information might
get lost within the network,
and vanishing gradients
problems arise.
But fortunately recent
research has found ways to
solve for the shortcomings of
RNNs by using transformers.
Transformers are a
great alternative to
RNNs that help overcome
these problems in NLP,
and in many fields that
processed sequence data.
Now you understand
why RNNs can be
slow and can have problems
with big contexts.
These are the cases where
transformer can help.
Next, I will show you
a concrete examples of tasks
where transformer is used.
Let's go to the next video.